♪♪♪
[Ronnie]
Previously on  The Chi...
May I help you?
[groaning]
Stop!
Fuck beats up an old lady?
It's a wonder she's alive.
[Ronnie] I need
to make a call.
I need to see
if my grandmother's
out of surgery now.
I'll see what I can do.
But you need to calm
the fuck down.
But I already talked to them.
Ronnie Davis is trying
to get out of jail.
You talking to the DA
could help put him away.
That was cool,
what you did for Junie.
I'll take it as gratitude,
'cause our debt is settled.
♪ suspenseful music ♪
[camera shutter clicking]
Maisha--
[groans]
- You like my hair?
- It's nice.
[groans]
I'll give you
whatever you want.
Just show me
who killed my brother.
I'll take the wheels.
[Maisha] What about the bike?
I'm lending it to you.
You know,
for the baby and stuff.
[Kimberly] Are you a drunk,
Mr. Davis?
Stop drinking
that fucking pruno
so I can get you
out of here.
Smell like shit.
You okay?
I'll testify.
Hold up.
Hold up!
What's your name,
you little badass?
Jason.
♪ I got to get back
to my baby ♪
♪ I got to get back,
I got to get back, hey ♪
♪ It's been 40 days
and 40 nights ♪
♪ I'm so lonesome
and blue... ♪
Really, Ronnie?
Three waffles?
The last thing I need
is this boy on a sugar high.
He barely concentrates
on anything
other than basketball
as it is.
Oh, let him have it,
just for today.
No school,
parent-teacher conferences--
Can I have some more syrup?
[Tracy] See?
And I made you a sandwich
to go, hmm?
I know how you like to eat
in the car on the way to work.
- Thank you.
- Mmm.
I can't believe you did
all this before 7 a.m.
I'm still on military time.
I'm sorry.
Don't apologize.
I think it's sweet.
- Mm.
- Ew!
Boy, go brush your teeth.
♪ The time that I spent away ♪
♪ Sure has taken its toll... ♪
So what do you got
planned today?
Gonna go head over
to my grandma's,
gonna cut her grass,
do some work around the house,
and after that, me and J
are just gonna hang out,
see what we
can get into.
Thought you were gonna go over
to the post office.
I heard on the news,
they were hiring, like,
a hundred new mail carriers.
I'm on it, babe.
I'm gonna get
a good job real soon.
It's only been a few months
since I got back.
Come here.
Come on.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
I'm gonna take care
of you guys.
♪♪♪
Come on.
You have my word on that.
♪♪♪
[audio fast-forwarding]
We argue.
I took out the gun and...
[audio fast-forwarding]
[Cruz] I need
to hear you say it.
I shot him.
That was it.
[audio rewinding]
[Cruz] I need
to hear you say it.
I shot him.
That was it.
Ronald Davis'
toxicology report.
Should I do the honors,
or would you like to?
Go ahead.
His blood alcohol level
was twice the legal limit
on the night
of the confession,
with trace amounts
of barbiturates and a sedative.
Sarge, he shot that kid.
We know that.
Now prove it.
He described the gun.
He took a chain off the body.
He confessed on tape,
for Christ's sake.
All while being drunk
off his ass.
My work on this case was solid.
There's an eyewitness.
You better make sure this kid
is solid, because you know
what it means if this
confession doesn't stick.
It's the Board of Review
and IA breathing down
both our necks.
I signed off on this thing.
I need you to fix it.
♪ tense music ♪
♪ dramatic hip-hop music ♪
♪♪♪
[fryers sizzling]
So my pops got, like,
this small African village
over there, right?
Okay, yeah, I know I got
a lot of kids too,
but I'm saying
this shit's crazy.
I got no privacy.
I gotta wait in line
to take a piss.
And my stepmom,
she buy groceries
Saturday morning.
Tuesday night,
all the food be gone.
No almond milk, nothing.
You gotta start putting
your name on shit.
No, they don't respect that.
You better figure it out.
Can't call yourself no man
if you don't take care
of your kids.
The-the system is rigged
against fathers.
They're grilling me
like I'm fucking O.J.
while she get
to just sit there.
She doing what she's supposed
to--be a good mama.
So the court can take money
out of my pocket
but won't help me
see my son?
That's some bullshit.
[engine rumbling]
Ain't this about a bitch?
What the hell is he doing?
Oh, I know dude.
I got this.
Yo, you Brandon, right?
Yeah, I'll be ready
for orders in a minute.
Bro, I don't want
no damn tacos.
You can't park right here.
This is a place of business.
This is a business too.
On wheels.
Then wheel your ass
on up out of here.
Man, me and Sonny sell
two different things.
People want fried chicken,
they gonna come
to y'all regardless.
If they wanna try
something different
and maybe expand
their palate a little bit,
they'll come check me out.
Man, why don't you take
this roach coach up the block?
You need to pump
your fucking brakes.
Don't be calling my shit
no roach coach.
It's named after my brother,
and I'm only parking here
because the rest of the block
is permit only.
Then get a fucking permit.
Today ain't the day, dog.
Look, man.
I don't know why
you going all crazy.
But I'm not about
to fight you over no chicken.
You know what?
Fuck it.
You win.
Everybody wins.
Except Brandon.
[engine rumbling]
Yo, Emmett, there's something
wrong with Sonny.
What?
[Terry] He had this
weird look on his face,
and then he just fell.
I think he overheated
or something.
Sonny, can you hear me?
You get...get that boy
to move his damn truck?
Sonny, Sonny, try to--
try to smile for me.
♪ dramatic music ♪
Call 911.
I think he having a stroke.
♪♪♪
[Nina] There's nothing
to be nervous about, Kevin.
You just tell the truth.
That's right.
We'll be in there with you.
You think that Ronnie guy
is gonna be in there
with the judge?
I mean,
he does have the right
to face his accuser,
something like that.
Boy, sometimes you're too smart
for your own good.
You're gonna worry me to death.
Saw it on Law & Order: SVU.
Let's go, son.
[man] Ms. Williams?
Yes, are they ready for us?
Uh, I spoke with
the judge's secretary.
It'll be another few moments.
I'm Alfred Justin with the
Advocacy Group for Children.
- Hey.
- Hi.
We work with kids and parents
who unfortunately find
themselves involved in some way
with the court system.
Are you an attorney?
No, our work
is in social services.
It's incredibly brave of you
to let Kevin testify.
I've helped families
in the past deal with
the pressures and sometimes
the unfortunate consequences
of giving testimony,
particularly in cases
of this magnitude.
Consequences?
Uh, can we have a minute?
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
[conversing indistinctly]
What'd he say, Mom?
Nothing you need
to worry about.
Come on.
We're leaving.
You've done more than enough.
[Kevin] But, Mom--
[Nina] I said come on, Kevin.
♪♪♪
Thank you for the assist.
[man speaking indistinctly
over TV]
[door opens]
[door closes]
[man speaking indistinctly
over TV]
Hey, boy,
what's your credit score?
[Brandon] Oh, shit.
[Greavy] You probably somewhere
in the 600s, ain't you?
Man, not right now.
Nobody told you to go to that
expensive-ass culinary school.
Ain't nobody told you
you gotta look through my mail
or commenting on everything
under the fucking sun
every time I come over here.
[Greavy] DA's office
must have called you too.
Yeah, they did.
I think it's fucked up.
Yeah, me too.
It's bullshit.
It's all bullshit.
[man speaking indistinctly
over TV]
Your mama said she ain't
coming back to Chicago.
What? Why?
She couldn't
handle being here
- if Coogie's killer goes free.
- He ain't even free yet.
She said her spirit told her
he was getting off.
Man, she always feeling
some shit in her spirit.
It ain't never positive.
Why she don't feel,
"I'm gonna win the lotto,"
in her spirit?
[sighs]
I know she drinking again too.
[man speaking indistinctly
over TV]
So what you gonna do,
move down there with her?
I ain't leaving Chi-town, not
even for your crazy-ass mama.
I was fine with moving down
to Tennessee with her,
get me some barbecue,
but I ain't fucking
with no Delaware.
I feel that.
Guess I'll catch
this overtime at CTA,
then spend my off days
with my daughter and grandbaby.
Keep my mind occupied.
Might finish sprucing up
around here too...
make it more my own.
Well, don't get
too comfortable.
My name's still on the deed.
- Hmm.
- [intercom buzzes]
The fuck he want?
I guess you heard about Ronnie?
I did.
I can't imagine
how hard this must be
for you and your family.
No, you can't.
I promise I am doing
everything I can
to make sure
he stays behind bars.
You think your mother
would be okay to write
a victim impact statement?
She ain't around,
so I doubt it.
How could you let this happen?
All these black men in jail
for shit they didn't do
and this fool admits
to killing my brother on tape?
How is he talking about
getting out of jail?
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
Your mom won't write
that statement,
I think you should.
♪♪♪
It could really help.
Here's a better thought.
How about you do your job
and leave me and my family
the fuck alone?
♪♪♪
I believe my client's
confession was coerced
by an unscrupulous detective,
that he pressured his own
confidential informant
into implicating himself
in a murder charge.
I guess it's the detective's
fault, too,
that we have an eyewitness.
An eyewitness in the form
of a 12-year-old child
who was clearly traumatized,
who's currently in therapy,
and who, by the way,
shot my client in the stomach.
- Is this true?
- Yes, sir.
[Kimberly] Eyewitness testimony
is unreliable
from adults
in the best of circumstances.
Certainly that's the case
here with the kid.
Thought the Ronnie Davis case
was pretty much open and shut.
But in light
of new information,
there's more to consider.
I'll deliberate
and render my decision shortly.
[school bell rings]
Having sold eight boxes,
Stacey Smith leads
our fund-raiser right now.
Congratulations.
Not to embarrass anyone
but to encourage you all
to work harder to win
those great prizes
for the top sellers,
Lisa Gobbs
and Stanley Jackson
hold the last spots.
But there's still plenty
of time left and plenty of room
for improvement.
Man, Kev.
I gotta level up.
Shedd Aquarium's weak.
Penguins and sharks
are straight, but that's it.
But I need this flat-screen.
I'm redoing the Papa Cave.
To win the flat-screen,
you gotta sell 30 boxes.
Twelve candy bars a box,
360 bars, at two dollars a pop
is 720 bucks for a TV
that retails at $400
that the school gets for free
as a donation.
Ain't nobody got time for that.
Who are you, Rain Man?
You don't understand.
There's only one good TV
in the whole house.
Ain't nobody got time to be
watching the Gospel Channel
- all day long.
- Man, be weak if you want to.
[Gasca] Great work, everybody.
Keep on selling.
Mr. Williams,
may I have a word?
If you're not going
to sell candy,
could you at least not
call the aquarium weak
in front of the whole class?
But the aquarium's weak.
It's not about you,
Mr. Williams.
Your parents can afford
to take you to the aquarium.
This fund-raiser
is about students
who aren't as fortunate.
My bad.
So...no more bad-mouthing
the candy sale or the aquarium.
Deal?
And since you clearly
know the math,
I expect you to return
on Friday with $24 in sales.
- But--
- Think of it as doing
a good deed
for your fellow classmate.
[sighs]
That thing you asked for.
Thank you.
So...
how'd it go?
I laid out all the points.
It's a solid case.
Now it's up to the judge.
And what about the eyewitness?
I wouldn't worry about that.
You been keeping
your nose clean?
You tell me.
You're the bloodhound.
You smell better
than before.
Well, thank you for taking
my case pro bono.
It's nice having someone
on your side.
Mr. Davis...
I've never been
on your side.
You think I enjoy
getting murderers
and white supremicists off?
♪ dramatic music ♪
I'm trying to make partner.
♪♪♪
I'll let you know
when I hear something.
♪♪♪
[door buzzes, clicks open]
[Papa] At least you didn't
have to see him.
If he gets out of jail,
think he'll come
looking for you again?
I don't know.
I hope not,
'cause all that drama with him
chasing you last time
aggravated my asthma.
Everything aggravates
your asthma.
So you ain't scared
of him no more?
Hell no.
I ain't scared of that nigga.
I never was.
Cool, but just in case,
you want me to have the elders
at the church pray
and lay hands on you?
No, y'all be
slapping oil on people
and getting the Holy Ghost
too much.
But that stuff works.
Last week, my dad knocked
me out with the Holy Ghost.
I woke up the next morning
and aced my math test.
Yeah, uh, I'm cool.
[Papa] Kev, who can we finesse
to get these candy bars off?
We?
You mean you.
What the--
How Maisha gonna give the bike
back that I gave her?
I know she not calling herself
trying to be nice.
[both] No.
♪ hip-hop music ♪
Hold on.
Don't touch it.
Wait, what?
What?
Yo, we don't know
what kinda criminal activity
Maisha has been
getting into.
Was she even at school today?
Um, nope.
Exactly.
If I was you,
I'd ride that shit
straight back to her ass.
You can't be out here
riding dirty, Kev.
♪♪♪
[Cruz] Anybody witness you
shooting Coogie?
Yeah.
[Cruz] Name?
[Ronnie] Kevin.
Cruz, you got a minute?
I'm, uh, kind of
in the middle of something.
It's cool.
It'll only take a sec.
I got no priors
on Brandon Johnson,
but who's this guy?
Homies showed him mad love
at the repast.
That's Reginald Taylor.
People call him Reg.
He's a street leader
of the 63rd Street Mob.
Run him, you'll see he's been
a menace his whole life.
That explains
all the ring kissing.
He doesn't strike me
as a boss, though.
I'm assuming he answers
to somebody else.
Yeah, they all
answer to somebody.
Gang founder's
doing double life
for a body he dropped
in '89.
Shot caller before Reg
was a flashy hood named Trice.
Before him, it was
an old-schooler named Q.
Street says both are dead.
And if Reg should meet
an untimely death,
who are the next knuckleheads
in succession?
[keyboard clacking]
[printer whirring]
Appreciate you, Detective.
Don't mention it.
Getting used to you
interrupting me.
♪ groovy music ♪
♪♪♪
[Sundra] My dad talks
about you all the time.
You're like
a son to him.
Doctor said he wouldn't be
alive if it wasn't for you.
Tch, well, my mom's a nurse.
She's always talking to me
about her patients.
I guess some of it stuck.
But look,
Sonny ain't going nowhere.
He got the whole hood to feed.
Yeah.
I don't know.
And I'm vegan, so I don't know
the first thing about chicken.
Wait, so you're thinking
about closing this place?
The family has
talked about it.
You can't.
I need this job.
Well, I'd hate to do it,
but I--
Let me run it.
I can hold down the fort
till Sonny's back on his feet.
But do you have any experience
running a business?
I know enough.
Besides, no sense
in shutting it down
when it can be open,
making money, right?
[hip-hop music playing
over radio]
One step forward,
two steps back.
That's my life.
No breaks.
It's like this thing
with Coogie's killer.
First he confessed
and said he did it.
Now he got a new lawyer and
he's trying to get out of jail.
Hey, I wouldn't sweat it.
He murdered your brother
in cold blood.
There's no way he's walking
scot-free for that.
Yeah, you're probably right.
Good thing is,
business is steady.
Give me a little
breathing room
to catch up
on some of these bills.
Yo, speaking of bills,
you get this joint?
Five grand to the winner
and a three-page spread
on Great Plate Magazine
might solve your problems.
Yeah, I saw that, but I might
be out of my league.
Please, you're just
as good as them.
- [cell phone rings]
- Shit.
- Can you get that for me?
- Yeah, I got you.
[cell phone beeps]
Yo.
Yep.
Yeah, I can do that.
Just send me the address.
Peace.
Hey, look, after we handle
this last customer,
- shut it down.
- What? Why?
We got another job. I'll tell
you about it on the way.
♪ Ohio Players'
"Funky Worm" playing ♪
♪ There's a worm
in the ground, yes, it is ♪
♪ That's right,
that's right ♪
♪ It lives six feet down ♪
♪ Six feet down ♪
♪ He only comes around ♪
♪ When he wants to get down ♪
♪ But when he comes out
of his hole ♪
♪ He sounds something
like this... ♪
♪♪♪
Um, where the fuck are we,
the Players Ball?
Man, ever since
I did Junie's repast,
I've been getting calls
off the hook.
I'm in high demand
at hood funerals now.
Plus, I can make
twice as much doing this
as I can selling tacos on
King Drive from 12 to three.
There's gotta be an easier way
to make money than this.
[scoffs]
Nah, G.
This the lick.
Besides, in a restaurant,
I'd never be able to get
to see Monkey D
and Lady Isis.
- [laughs]
- Beautiful.
- You feel me?
- [both laugh]
[indistinct chatter]
I knew you'd come.
I've been all over this place
looking for your ass.
I didn't know you moved.
Look, I'm just here
to give you this bike back,
'cause God knows
what you been doing with it.
Aw, you must care.
- Care about what?
- About me.
I don't care about you.
On my mamas.
I just don't give people stuff
and take it back.
You know what?
Forget it.
Wait.
My mom told me to bring
the bike back.
One of my snitch-ass
cousins told.
But as long as you here,
I need something.
You need to start
bringing me my homework
every day.
Now you got a ride.
No.
I'm not your slave.
You would be so lucky.
[chuckles]
Do it, or I'll tell Mrs. Jones
about that volcano
y'all stole from the library
and get you
and your little friends
in trouble.
Damn, Maisha.
Thought we was cool.
Just bring me my homework, boy.
[monitor beeping]
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
[Jada] Miss Ethel,
this is Detective Toussaint.
Miss Davis, I wanna talk to you
about what you remember
about the attack.
Would you recognize any
of the men if you saw them?
♪♪♪
[Ethel] No.
I know that boy.
But it-it wasn't him.
♪♪♪
[Jada] Yeah, take it slow.
Can you describe
who attacked you?
Now, that I can do.
He was black.
♪♪♪
Smiled a lot.
Tall.
And ugly something.
♪♪♪
And said he was a homeless vet.
You said, "He."
There was only one attacker?
[groans]
- [coughing]
- [alarms beeping]
[Jada] Okay.
[coughing]
I'm all right.
I'm sorry.
She needs her rest.
You should come back later.
[coughing]
[indistinct chatter]
[dial tone hums]
[line trilling]
[woman] You have reached
(773) 555-0155.
At the tone,
please leave a message.
[beep]
You and that girl
must be getting serious.
What's her name?
Tammy?
Tracy, Grandma.
I knew it was a T
some kind of way.
Seems very serious
if you keeping her son.
When your mama was alive,
she wouldn't let nobody
watch you but me.
[basketball bouncing]
Grandma, how you like
if I plant you
some peonies out here?
[Ethel] Sounds good to me.
I made some sweet tea.
- Y'all want some?
- I do.
- All right.
- Thanks, Grandma.
[chuckles]
Ronnie, who's your favorite
Bulls player right now?
Jordan.
Past, present, and future.
[Ethel] Ronnie,
come get this tray.
Keep working
on your left hand.
- [Jason] Hey!
- [boy] Go get it, scrub.
Watch it there now, son.
Keep the ball over there.
- Whatever.
- Don't you "whatever" me.
- You call me sir, understand?
- Hey, hey, hey!
Don't you put your hands
on my son!
♪ dramatic music ♪
What'd I tell you about keeping
- that ball over here, huh?
- Ow!
You need to stay
on this side of the street!
You're hurting me!
- You ain't my daddy!
- Hmm.
I'm ready to go home.
Jason, come back here!
♪♪♪
[indistinct chatter]
Damn, burner's out.
Oh, we served that much food?
[Brandon] You mean they ate
that much food.
That was a gang of people.
I'm tired as hell.
Now I gotta use what I was
gonna make off this job
to fix this shit.
Didn't I just say?
Two steps back.
Hey, B, let me holler at you
right fast, young blood.
♪ soul music ♪
♪♪♪
♪ Well, well ♪
♪ I'm amazed ♪
♪ By your sensuous love... ♪
♪♪♪
Man, I sure do appreciate you
coming through for me like that
on such short notice.
Cousin Mildred was supposed
to did all the food.
She messed around,
got called in for a double.
You understand, playboy.
It's all good, Smitty.
- You ready to get settled up?
- Yes, sir.
Let's handle this biz and I'll
get back to these streets.
It's gonna be 1,500 even.
Fifteen hundred?
You said 850.
I mean, that's
when you told me
it was gonna be 60 people
I was cooking for.
Half of Lawndale
showed up out here.
Oh, boy, you got that
Ronald Reagan inflation
around this piece.
[laughs]
I got you, though.
♪♪♪
What am I supposed
to do with this?
[chuckles]
That's that
Ooh-Wee Teena Marie.
You bag that up right,
you got 700 right fast.
By the time it's all
said and done,
you might mess around,
owe me, blood.
[chuckles]
♪♪♪
I wanna speak
to your supervisor.
What seems to be the problem?
The problem is
her funky attitude.
And you're out of dark meat.
Oh, I apologize for that,
ma'am.
Um, we cooking up
another batch right now.
She said that
30 minutes ago.
Can you please be nice
to the customers?
[hip-hop music playing
over speakers]
And where the hell is Rhonda?
She called off.
Said she ain't feel
like dealing
with these people today.
[Emmett] Neither do I,
but I still showed up.
- Folks is trifling.
- Mm.
Terry, how much longer
on the chicken?
I'm moving as fast as I can,
bro.
I only got one fryer.
[scoffs]
And that grease trap is still
backed up on the other one.
Who was supposed to clean
the grease trap?
You.
Fuck.
Sundra need to close
this place,
'cause you don't know
what you doing.
What you say?
Man, get back to work.
Oh, so you're the manager now?
Yeah, which means
I can fire people.
[man] Sir, this chicken
is burnt.
♪♪♪
Oh, it's not burnt.
It's-it's-it's extra crispy.
♪ Magna Carda's "The Root"
playing ♪
I want my money back.
♪♪♪
♪ Everybody come from
somewhere or maybe nowhere ♪
♪ The place you wake from ♪
♪ The place we ain't from
that makes us scared ♪
♪ The projects,
the overseas... ♪
[man] Get off my porch!
♪ Place where ain't no art
on the walls ♪
♪ Just pictures of Jesus
and civil rights leaders ♪
- ♪ Or confederate flags... ♪
- Go away!
♪ From the plastic
of her seat ♪
♪ And then
struggling mothers ♪
♪ Young brothers... ♪
Afternoon.
Yo, go!
What they running for?
Excuse me, miss.
I just wanted to ask--
I have a--
Come on.
♪ Instead we see
who we are not ♪
♪ And think they all
beneath us ♪
♪ 'Cause he carrying heat ♪
♪ And she got
her college degree on ♪
♪ 'Cause the sweetest love
done knocked you up ♪
♪ And he don't
wanna keep her ♪
♪ We all living different
for a reason ♪
♪ We come from the root ♪
[dog barking]
[Gladys] Wait a minute.
This is about Ethel?
I'll talk to you.
[dog barking]
Sit your ass down, Kang!
Making all that noise.
I got a noisy one too.
Detective Toussaint.
What's your name?
Gladys, baby.
[chuckles]
I've lived over here 46 years,
and I ain't scared
of these Negroes.
What you need to know?
Recognize anybody here
as a troublemaker?
I don't.
You know, they all start
to look the same after a while.
[Toussaint] What's with all
the "For Sale" signs?
Folks want to move,
it's getting so bad
around here.
All the shootings,
break-ins,
what they did to Ethel.
It's terrible.
♪ dramatic music ♪
Miss Gladys,
aside from the crime,
would you happen to know
if some of your neighbors
have been forced
to leave their homes?
Anybody been evicted recently?
I don't know nothing about
nobody getting evicted.
There's this white girl walking
around offering folks money
to move,
so some people taking it.
This white girl have a name?
I don't know.
If you see
that white girl again,
will you please
give me a call?
Sure will.
- [alarm beeping]
- ♪ Wake up ♪
♪ Get up, get up, go ♪
♪ Get up, get up,
get up, go ♪
- Huh.
- ♪ Get up, get up, go ♪
♪ Get up, get up, get up,
gotta wake your ass up ♪
Huh.
♪ Wake up, wake up, wake up,
hey, hey ♪
Huh.
♪ Yeah, wake up,
right, wake up, wake up... ♪
Huh.
Mm.
♪ Get up, get up, go ♪
♪ Get up, get up,
get up, go ♪
It's actually premium shit.
Yes.
Yeah. I could flip it.
Probably get about 800 for it.
That should square us
on the truck.
Cool?
Damn, yeah.
I was gonna knock out
a couple of these other bills
before I hit you back
for the truck.
♪ Left the bunk
for the function... ♪
[groans]
How the hell you not
gonna pay me first?
I'm your chief investor.
Man, 'cause these bills
taking turns whupping my ass.
Let me just hold 400 of this
until I can get the burner
fixed and get out of this hole
and then I'll pay you back
as soon as I can.
I got you.
[laughs]
What the hell you doing
catering pimp funerals?
I'll cater anybody's funeral,
long as the check clears.
No, what you need is a venture
capitalist with deep pockets.
♪♪♪
I got this joint in the mail
the other day.
Might not help me
right this second, but...
"The After Taste.
Next generation."
Yeah,
it's a food competition.
It's a spin
off the Taste of Chicago.
In order to get in,
you gotta own a restaurant
or a food truck,
be affiliated with
a culinary school, and have,
like, three signature dishes.
But you got all that.
Why you saying you don't know?
See, this is what
I'm talking about.
Your chakras,
they all out of balance.
Two, three, four, five, six.
All seven of them.
You'd kill this contest, bro.
My school's one of the
sponsors, and you gotta be
in good financial standing
to compete.
Which I know you ain't.
Man, it don't
even matter.
Hold up, did they actually
tell you you couldn't compete?
No.
But you know how white people
is about they money.
Boy, you better act like you
got a mouthpiece on you.
You a Johnson.
We make shit happen.
Now, go down there
and talk somebody ear off
until they let you in.
- Well...
- Boy, what you doing?
Mine.
Here.
You're getting a quiz
on linear equations.
My notes are in there.
Use them if you want.
Have one.
They're yellow cake.
I made too many.
Mama got you
babysitting again?
Yeah, she got another job.
Your mom's got a lot of jobs.
She got a lot of kids.
Uh, you wanna come in?
I'll wrap the rest up
for you to take
to your big-boned friend Papa.
I know he'll eat them.
Next time, you gotta use
two hands, Sierra.
Okay?
No more snacks after this.
It's time for y'all butts
to take a nap anyway.
[child groaning]
So what's the tea at school?
Is Dijonay and Alexa
still beefing?
No, y'all girls be
spilling tea too much.
I just mind my business.
You're boring.
So, uh, when you coming
back to school?
I don't know.
My mom says she got
a lot on her plate
and she needs me
right now.
[baby crying]
Uh, tell Papa not to eat
these all at once
with his greedy self.
Okay.
I'll tell him.
[baby crying]
Uh, will I see you tomorrow?
Yeah.
[baby crying]
Hey.
Come here.
Can I have a high five?
High five?
Can I have a hug?
[crying]
♪ Melo Makes Music's
"Sleepless" playing ♪
♪♪♪
Coogie?
Hey, yo, Brandon!
Brandon!
♪♪♪
♪ I slipped and fell ♪
♪ On the blackest ice ♪
Brandon!
♪♪♪
♪ Was moving at the speed
of light ♪
[Kevin] Yo, Brandon!
♪♪♪
♪ And still overseen ♪
♪ Overlooked ♪
Brandon, wait up!
♪ Fooled me once,
can't fool me twice, though ♪
♪ I was, like, eight trying
to dance like Michael ♪
♪ Cirque du Soleil,
now walk the tightrope... ♪
What up, Kev?
Long time, no see.
Yeah.
I didn't think you saw me.
You heard about that Ronnie
dude trying to get out?
Yeah, I heard.
Look, man, it's getting late.
Put your bike in the back.
I'll give you a ride.
All right. Thanks.
[laughter, indistinct chatter]
I just wish I could do more.
I'm sorry.
Don't be.
Just you being willing
to speak up in the first place
was helpful.
Real talk.
Hmm?
[indistinct yelling]
What you was doing all the way
on the other side of town?
Dropping off some homework
to this girl at my school.
[laughs]
Don't let me find out you got
a little girlfriend, Kev.
First of all, she ain't little.
Second of all,
it ain't even like that, bro.
Yeah, whatever.
[scoffs]
Whatever, man.
[laughs]
♪ This for the dreamers ♪
Let's get in on this football.
♪ This for the ceaseless ♪
♪ This for the scene kids,
oh, planting our seeds ♪
♪ This for the sleepless ♪
♪ This for my city,
I speak for the speechless ♪
departed friend ♪
♪ This for my city,
my actions so sleepless ♪
[grunting]
You know anything about
a white lady canvassing
Miss Ethel's neighborhood,
making property inquiries?
No, first I've heard of that.
[grunts]
The Davis confession.
Figured out your next move?
[breathing heavily]
No, there is no next move.
Ronnie Davis is exactly
where he belongs.
He shot that kid
and confessed.
Drunk, sober,
it doesn't matter.
I know him.
Guy's a functioning
alcoholic.
Worked as my CI
for the past two years.
So you took the confession
of a drunk informant?
Why didn't you just tank him
till he sobered up?
You know the protocol.
He killed Coogie Johnson.
He and I both know it.
[grunting]
It's all bullshit.
Lawyers doing what they do:
bastardizing the law.
They find loopholes,
and it's our job to make sure
there aren't any.
There must have been
something about this
Ronnie Davis guy--
this Coogie Johnson case--
that caused
the rush.
[velcro ripping]
I don't need a shrink.
Okay?
I did everything by the book.
♪ Melo Makes Music's
"Sleepless" playing ♪
[Kevin] That was his, right?
Yeah.
♪♪♪
How was it like,
having a brother?
Fun.
Crazy.
When he was little,
he used to hate all that hair.
Kids made fun of him,
called him a girl.
He got into a gang of fights
over it too.
Until I told him, like,
being different
is what makes you special.
Anyway, why?
No brothers?
No, just a bossy-ass
big sister.
[laughs]
I'm sure she just looking out
for you, G.
♪♪♪
Thanks for the ride.
Dope truck.
You're welcome
to roll anytime.
I could always use
an extra hand.
Hey, you're pretty smart
at school, right?
Hmm, I'm all right,
I guess.
I wanna read something to you.
Check it out.
See what you think.
Sure.
The detective
handling Coogie's case,
he asked me
to write a statement.
Supposed to sway
the judge's decision
about keeping
Coogie's killer in jail.
Hey, look,
I'm not much of a writer,
so don't be judging
my shit hard.
Just read it.
"My little brother, Coogie,
everybody loved him.
He was the glue that held
my family together.
And now that he's gone,
it just seems like
everything's falling apart.
For me,
sometimes my mom.
Even though
he was my little brother,
he felt like a son to me.
Because I raised him.
Taught him
how to tie his shoes,
how to read,
how to ride a bike.
He was the light
at the end of the tunnel.
♪♪♪
Now there's no light.
Just darkness.
That's what this killer took
away from me and my family."
♪♪♪
That was--that was really good.
Brother seemed like
a really cool guy.
♪♪♪
Yeah, thanks for listening,
dude.
♪♪♪
[sighs]
♪ Fooled me once,
can't fool me twice, though ♪
♪ I was, like, eight trying
to dance like Michael ♪
♪ Cirque du Soleil,
now I walk the tightrope ♪
♪ Learned to live ♪
♪♪♪
♪ This for my city and this
for the speechless... ♪
[grunts]
Still got my number, right?
All right, well, let me know
if you need anything.
- Thanks.
- All right.
♪ This for my city and this
for the scene kids ♪
♪ This for my city, my city,
and this for the sleepless ♪
[door squeaking]
[echoing thud]
[radio static]
Maximum range of
an M-16 A1 assault rifle's
3,600 meters.
Effective flying range
of 550 meters.
Fires in rapid succession
800 rounds per minute.
It'd be so easy
to take you out.
[radio crackling]
[distant gun firing]
[Ethel] You been back and forth
at that window all day.
What you looking for?
You need to come away from it.
Your disability's here.
I'm not disabled.
I'm fine.
Ronnie,
I need you to go downtown
and pay that water bill.
And get yourself together like
you been telling that girl.
♪ dramatic music ♪
[echoing gunfire]
[Kimberly]
The DA pulled the case.
What does that mean?
They didn't think
they had enough evidence
to move forward.
You're a free man.
[door buzzes]
[door slams]
[inhales, sighs]
I don't know exactly
what to say.
Say you'll do better.
[distant chatter]
This check is the balance
on your commissary account.
I can coordinate
a halfway house
if you need someplace to stay.
No, I-I'm staying
with my grandma.
I gotta get back
and take care of her.
While your concern for your
grandmother is understandable,
you won't be much use to her
if you don't get
your life together.
I know.
It's all
I've been thinking about
since she's been
in the hospital.
If I was a better man,
maybe this wouldn't
have happened.
This probably sounds crazy,
but it's like...
I been doing better in here.
The order, routine.
It's almost like the Army.
- Almost.
- I've heard that before.
Some people thrive in the
four walls of an institution
but a prison can't be
the only place a man survives.
You have to find structure
on the outside.
You being released
is a miracle.
No one walks
on a murder charge.
Unless I'm defending them.
♪ dramatic music ♪
You have a lot to figure out,
Mr. Davis.
Good luck to you.
♪♪♪
Is there any brisket today?
No, just chicken.
Uh, hush puppies?
Nope, just chicken.
All right, what about them
Cajun fries y'all got?
Bruh, just chicken.
So when y'all said,
"Sonny's Chicken Pit,"
y'all really meant that shit?
Look, man, this is the menu
until Sonny gets back.
This all we got.
[woman] I mean,
can we move it along?
You want a hush puppy,
you can--
[indistinct chatter]
I can't believe Sonny
left you in charge.
Well, believe it.
How can I help you?
Look, I need some money
for EJ dentist appointment.
I already gave you
your monthly check.
And that barely
covers daycare.
You wanted a child
support order,
you got one, all right?
I'm paying
what they told me to pay.
Why you need to go to an
expensive-ass dentist, anyway?
He only got three teeth.
So you can spend $300
on a pair of gym shoes
but you can't cough up
no extra money for your son?
I ain't bought no new shoes
in, like, three weeks.
Am I supposed to feel
sorry for you?
Look, you can either order food
or get the fuck out.
Fuck you, Emmett.
[silverware clattering]
[door opens]
Sh...
[door closes]
[handcuffs jingling]
Where you taking me?
It's a briefing for inmates
within 30 days of release.
Congratulations, by the way.
[grunts]
[both grunting]
Playing your drunk card
is bullshit.
[Cruz] You know it.
You're the one that told me
that kid was standing
over Jason's body.
The fuck you think
was gonna happen?
[grunts]
I looked out for you.
[both breathing heavily]
Your family.
This is what you do to me?
[both panting]
Fuck you.
And since you think
I owe you something,
I won't tell my lawyer
you assaulted me.
[knocking]
[door opens]
[door squeaking]
[door closes]
[train rattling]
♪ hip-hop music ♪
Excuse me, sir.
Would you like a candy bar?
♪♪♪
We've been out here
for three hours and only made
eight dollars between us.
Be patient.
Sales is the long game.
[exhales]
I feel light headed.
What you light headed for?
Do not try to back out of this.
I told you.
I've been on
the Daniel Fast at church.
But today is the last day.
Praise Jesus.
♪♪♪
You've been on a Daniel Fast?
And today's the last day?
What?
Bible says that obedience
is better than the sacrifice.
Can I get some help
in here today?
[cheers and applause]
Aww, don't y'all go to looking
at your clocks.
Because the Lord is speaking
and I'm still teaching.
I said obedience
is better than a sacrifice.
And through your obedience
all blessings will flow.
Almost over.
As soon as my daddy
get done preaching.
He long winded.
He been preaching
for a long time.
How you know he almost done?
Well...
I say ten days.
[congregation] Ten days.
He just held up crackers.
He always does that
at the end of a fast.
[congregation shouting]
Boy, I feel the anointing
of a four piece
spicy dark in my spirit.
Right now I receive it.
[congregation] I receive it.
I receive it.
You are dismissed.
[cheers]
[organ notes]
- [Papa] Two dollars.
- [Kevin] Know you're hungry.
[Papa] Get them before
they sell out.
Selling over here.
- Selling over here.
- Two dollars.
Thank you, man.
Two.
Two dollars.
[Kevin] We got everything
over here.
[Papa] Here we go, here we go.
[Papa] Time is money, people.
- I ain't trying to waste it.
- You make change here?
[Kevin] Thank you, thank you,
thank you.
We know you're hungry.
Come on.
All right, here you go.
- [woman] Give me four!
- There you go.
♪ gospel vocalizing ♪
We do good?
[distant chatter]
[cell phone rings]
[phone trilling]
[phone ringing]
[beeps]
Hello?
[woman] You are receiving
a call
from a correctional
institution.
Caller,
please state your name.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
[Brandon] Hello?
You can't put your hands
on my child like that, Ronnie.
[Ronnie] I didn't mean
to hurt him.
Let's not make a big deal
out of this.
You know I love Jason.
♪♪♪
What's going on with you?
You're not yourself.
I don't want my son
to be scared of you.
Hell, I don't wanna
be scared of you.
I was just trying
to protect him, that's all.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Listen.
I hear a lot of what you say,
Ronnie,
but it's not lining up
with what you do.
You love Jason.
You love me.
You say you're applying
for all these city jobs.
You say you're working
on finding us
a better place to stay.
But where is any of that?
I'm waiting on people to call.
Baby, I can't control all that.
♪♪♪
I need stability.
I'm really trying, Trace.
I swear to God, I am!
Just...
Just, if you can hang
in there with me.
[grunts]
I love you.
But I'm sorry.
This is all just
too much for me right now.
I think we need
to slow down a little.
[scoffs]
You know?
Take a break.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
[beeps]
Here.
Here's all my tip money.
You can have it.
Go get his teeth checked.
Thank you.
You wanna come inside?
Where EJ at?
He asleep?
[door closes]
I work early shifts on
Wednesdays so he's staying
with my mama Tuesdays.
I don't wanna mess up
his sleep schedule.
Why the fuck you invite
me here, then?
You knew I'd want to see him.
You're always on some bullshit,
Tiff.
I was trying to be nice
to your ass.
I should go to your mom's
house right now
so I can go see my son.
[scoffs]
You don't wanna do that.
My mama don't like you.
She only don't like me
'cause you're always
talking shit about me.
No, she don't like you
because you spent
the first year
of EJ's life denying him.
Now all of a sudden
he's your son.
I've done everything
I'm supposed to do.
You pay one month
of child support.
That don't make you
daddy of the year.
You ain't winning no
parenting awards, either.
Fuck you, nigga.
No, I used to fuck you.
Now I don't.
That's why you mad.
[train clacking]
[grunts]
♪ Queen Key's "Spenda Nite"
playing ♪
♪ Queen, queen ♪
♪ Queen shit bitch ♪
♪ Queen ♪
♪♪♪
[both grunting]
[indistinct radio chatter]
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪♪♪
[door buzzes]
[door closes]
♪♪♪
[gate buzzes]
[distant sirens wailing]
[gate squealing]
[mechanics whirring]
♪♪♪
[whirring stops]
[gate closing]
♪♪♪
If I keep up
my monthly payments,
I was hoping the school
would make an exception
and let me participate
in the After Taste.
I'm just a young man
trying to do the right thing.
What I'm saying is,
I just need somebody
to believe in me.
I get it.
But this is a business,
Brandon.
[indistinct chatter]
If I let you slide,
I have to let others.
I appreciate you taking
the time to see me.
However our mission is not only
to train the next generation
of great chefs but to encourage
people of strong character
to pursue their dreams.
I think we can count that
payment as a good faith effort
and consider the name Brandon
Johnson to be in good standing.
Thank you so much, Dean.
Thank you so much.
Wait. There are no more
Brandon Johnsons, right?
I don't think so.
All right.
But I'll check.
All right, thank you.
[Cruz] Jason's chain.
[Ronnie] Yeah.
[Cruz] So was he outside
the corner store?
[Ronnie] Mm-hmm.
[helicopter rotors whirring]
[Ronnie] I took out the gun.
[gunshot]
[door opens]
[indistinct chatter]
[sirens blaring]
[dog barking]
[radio static]
[Ronnie] Maximum range
of an M-16 A1 assault rifle
is 3,600 meters.
[Jason] Mom!
You're hurting me.
[Tracy] You can't put your
hands on my child like that.
I don't want my son
to be scared of you.
Hell, I don't wanna
be scared of you.
You love Jason.
You love me.
You say you're applying
for all these city jobs.
[Ethel] Your
disability's here.
[Ronnie] Death
in milliseconds.
[voices fade]
♪ dramatic tones ♪
[gunshot]
[horn honking]
Hey!
♪ percussive music ♪
♪♪♪
♪ vocalizing ♪
[keyboard clacking]
[bell dings]
♪♪♪